

> [!NOTE] Trading is a lifestyle choice.



- What are the 5 core principles?
	- 5 rules to live by to master your trading.
	- They tie in to all aspects of trading success.
	- They act as consistent reminders to actually guide you to success.


#### Principle 1: Self Mastery = Total Mastery

- In order to master trading, you need to master yourself and succeed within yourself.
- Develop a winning mindset and you will develop a winning attitude.

#### Principle 2: You are the Master of your Journey

- You are responsible for all successes and failures that you encounter - claim it.
- Learn from your failures and congratulate yourself for your wins.
- Only you in the end are going to be the reason that you win or lose in trading (or anything in this life).


#### Principle 3: Market = King

- The market is king - No one is above the market.
- The market is continuously humble you, stay humble & disciplined
- Never try to predict the future, work with what the market is giving you.


#### Principle 4: Every Loss is a Lesson

- Even when you're losing money, you're learning something.
- This won't be automatic as you won't learn anything if you don't take any information from the loss that you took.
- You must decipher your losses, e.g. did you risk to much?, did you make bad technical decisions?, did you trade based on emotional decisions? You can learn from any loss that you take.
- Consider your losing trades as the cost of education.
- No loss is in vain.


#### Principle 5: Patience + Persistence = Undoubtable Success

- Trading requires a lot of patience and a lot of persistence.
- You're going to need patience to get through losing times and persistence to push through the pain of the losing streaks, etc.
- Don't give up no matter how long and difficult the journey may seem.