
- In your journey you're going to experience both 'negative' & 'positive' emotions.
	- Both types can be detrimental to success.

- You must need to build emotional resilience and the ability to fight off both types of emotions as they come because doing so is going to let you trade without emotion and without getting irrational.

###### Negative emotions that you're likely going to experience in your trading journey:

- Fear
	- For example, the fear of losing money or the fear of missing out of an opportunity.

- Frustration
	- For example, when you enter a trade and the price stops you out before moving in the direction that you had anticipated. You're going to be frustrated that you lost money.

- Anger
	- You will mostly likely experience anger when you lose trades.

- Stress
	- For example, when you keep on taking losses after losses. That can definitely cause you to be stressed out. 

- Depression
	- Caused by having too much stress.


- It is very easy to part ways with your money, always keep that in mind and be sensible with your money.

###### Positive emotions that you're likely going to experience in your trading journey:

- Excitement
- Joy
- Cockiness

- Especially when you're winning, always remain calm whether you're winning or losing.

- You need to develop a neutral emotional mindset in order to succeed long-term in trading.
	- You need to be able to block out the positive and negative emotions that trading brings.

- Emotions are overcome with experience.
	- Psychology cannot be taught.
	- Its a personal journey.


###### How to overcome positive and negative emotions:

- Depression, stress & fear:
	- Don't oversize trades.
	- Don't revenge trade.

- Excitement, joy & cockiness:
	- Humble yourself and remember that the market is king.

- Greed & revenge trading:
	- Set concrete risk management protocols.
	- Build discipline & stick to your rules.

- Most negative emotions arise from losses, understand that losses are normal & part of the process.

- Most positive emotions arise from wins, always remain humble.