
###### What is Forex?
- The foreign exchange market (aka Forex) is global markets where the value of currencies are traded.

- It is regarded as one of the biggest markets in the world with a turnover of 7 Trillion Dollars ($7 000 000 000 000).

- It is traded by many different market participants (i.e. banks, hedge funds, retail traders, etc.).

###### Who trades Forex?
- Retail traders makes up the largest volume of traders, despite making up the highest volume of traders. Retail traders are considered to be small compared to the institutional traders when it comes to Dollar volume.

- Banks, hedge funds & trading firms makes up over 90% of the daily dollar trading volume in the forex markets, meaning that they have a lot of influence over currency valuations.

###### When can we trade?
- The forex markets are open 24/5 closing only for the weekend, in SA time that's from 23h00 Monday to 23h59 Friday.

- The markets can be traded any time through the week making them the most flexible markets aside from crypto and synthetic indices (which can be traded 24/7).
 
- There are various trading sessions to be aware of, where market movements becomes either volatile or slows down for currencies.


###### Key forex trading sessions?

- **Sydney Session:** 11/12 PM to 8 AM SAST.
- **Tokyo Session:** 2 AM to 11 AM SAST.
- **London Session:** 9 AM to 6 PM SAST.
- **New York Session:** 3 PM to 11 PM SAST. 

- Daylight Saving Time (DST) Considerations:
	- South Africa does not observe Daylight Saving Time, meaning the times listed above remain consistent throughout the year. 
	
	- However, the trading sessions still shift as the London and New York sessions are affected by DST. 
	
	- During the UK's DST period (spring and summer), the London session opens one hour earlier (8 AM SAST) and the New York session opens one hour earlier (2 PM SAST).
	
	- This means that the London/New York overlap, which is a popular time for trading in South Africa, occurs between 3 PM and 7 PM SAST during standard time and 2 PM to 6 PM SAST during DST.


###### When is the best time to trade?

- The best time to trade is through the London & New York sessions, the overlapping of the sessions between 15h00 and 19h00 SAST has the highest volatility before the market begins winding down.

- The Asia session can provide some fresh volatility for the market and even reversals for some pairs. 